# W3C Solid Community Group: Test Suite Panel

* Date: 2022-05-09T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-test-suite
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/test-suite
* Repository: https://github.com/test-suite-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Pete Edwards
* Yvo Brevoort
* Michiel de Jong
* Alain Bourgeois
* MohammadReza vahedi

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Yvo Brevoort


### Introductions

---

## Topics

* SC: <strong id="note-2022-05-10T11:00:00Z">CHAIR NOTE (2022-05-10)</strong>: The minutes below are updated to indicate the latest snapshot of the minutes during the allocated official time of the meeting (see <a href="#note-2022-05-10T10:55:00Z">message at 2022-05-10T10:55:00Z</a>). ACTIONs that were originally minuted after <a href="#note-2022-05-09T14:55:00Z">message at 2022-05-09T14:55:00Z</a> are striked through and are not effective.

### Meetings
* SC: We can continue to conjure meetings if/when needed.

### Test Suite Panel Repository
* SC: The panel didn't have a dedicated repository, so now we have one: https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel . It will hold meeting minutes, anything the panel needs to track that doesn't belong to another repository. Work items will be tracked in their own repositories.

* SC: The panel repository will contain the charter and information about the test suite panel.
* SC: The panel repository will not contain code or work items, they will live in their own repo.
* MJ: Pete suggested we have two work items in the charter: software (harness, jest based, browser based tests) and the activity of providing reports.
* PE: Not exactly what I was suggesting, but focus of having two streams of work / test suites.
* MJ: We have the harness and the links to the tests, and the reports of all the server, based on the jest based tests. Suggest adding the harness based tests as well to the reports. If we write something down in the charter as the test suite panel, it should cover both flows.
* SC: will link to the existing work from the work items.

#### Panel and Work Item Repository Access Controls
* SC: I'm looking into having something workable for the whole CG. Will keep you posted: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/a34d6f7ff50f5b296eacc47c5fe7f6e25ea7f62f/meetings/2022-05-11.md#members-of-the-w3c-solid-community-group-need-appropriate-access-controls-to-repositories
* MJ: Alain created the solid-test-suite organization [the solid-test-suite organization](https://github.com/solid-test-suite). Should we move our repositories there?
* AB: In contrib, there is a lot of other repositories and information. If there were only one or two others, it would not be so bad. But for the visibility of the organization, it would make things clearer to be in our own Github org.
* MJ: Any objection on moving it to an own repo?
* PE: Don't want to move the conformance harness right now - it will break all the links and break automated tests. Prefer to get to stable first before moving things.
* MJ: did the spec test repo also move? Or did it stay under solid?
* SC: Most things moved out of the solid repo/org, everything relating to tests, code is no longer in there. Would like to revisit at a later time, focus on the charter for now.
* MJ: do we have an agenda point to discuss the item of what servers are reported on and how that works in terms of consent?
* SC: Let's come to that later on.

### Panel's Chat Room Name
* SC: Apparently we can rename solid/test-suite to something else, e.g., matching the repository, solid/test-suite-panel . Not sure if it puts a redirect in place. That may be one concern. We can also stay put at solid/test-suite but need to update the channel topic to refer to solid/test-suite-panel repository.
* SC: All other panels use -panel suffix.
* SC: Any preferences? Other options?
* PE: Would like to rename.
* YB: Rename is fine, it is just a channel name.
* MJ: Current name suggests that it is about the software or the reports. Renaming it to panel makes it look like it is only for panel members.
* SC: Would like to split out the software from the panel.
* MJ: The chat is mainly for working on the test suite, not as much for organizing the panel itself. Concerned that if we change the name to end in -panel now, it might get restricted by the charter. Why change the name, what problem does that solve?
* PE: By adding -panel, it gets more inclusive.
* MJ: That is a good thing then. As long as we understand that we are not restricting the topic of the channel.
* SC: software and reports about the test suite should be discussable on this chat.
* PE: It can include other test suites such as the oidc tests as well.

ACTION: SC to look into renaming Gitter chat channel.

### Test Suite Panel Charter
* SC: the aim is to have a charter, that other can read to see what we are doing. Will have deliverables outlined in the charter. We will discuss proposals.

* SC: The Test Suite Panel is a "horizontal" panel. We need to revisit/clarify our understanding of the Test Suite Panel alongside other panels in the CG as well as contributors to specs and implementers.

* SC: We need to stabilise a mutual understanding and a coordination plan. To advance our work, we need to agree on a charter that details its goals, scope, deliverables, decision policy (e.g., along the lines of https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/notifications-panel-charter.md ).
* SC: Here are some proposed actions. In these proposals, I assume that:
  * Anyone can write a test. Could be a spec author, test suite writer.
  * Anyone can contribute to the actions.
  * Tests and reports that are not approved for publication at locations acknowledged by the Editors Team is out of scope for the Charter.
    * MJ: Strongly disagree on this, does not look like
    * SC: I hear you. Reason for this charter, is to have certain groups accountable. Someone should be responsible to publish the reports.
    * MJ: solidproject.org should publish the reports
    * SC: We need buy-in from the other teams. We cannot force them to publish whatever we say.
    * MJ: Why would the test-suite panel restrict itself to what we can publish, in our charter?
    * SC: Need to establish what the tests are.
    * MJ: We as the test-suite panel are authoritative. Not telling solidproject.org to publish other things.
    * SC: We are proposing the charter, but we need to cooperate with the other teams in the project. Need mutual understanding what the tests should look like, if the tests are correct, reports have the right elements in them etc. We should have an agreement on that with the Solid Editors.
    * MJ: does the spec team have a charter that prevents them from publishing the test suite result? If we find problem in the work from other teams, we should tell them. But should not restrict a team from doing their work.
    * SC: the authors of the spec are in the lead of the requirements.
    * MJ: Lets not restrict ourselves in the charter that we can't publish our own reports.
    * SC: we've not gone through the proposals yet.
    * MJ: The third point restricts publication to whatever Solid Editor team approves. We should not start by restricting ourselves.
    * SC: Doesn't matter who pushes the button to publish. Who knows the requirements better than the authors of a given spec. Assumption is that they need to look at tests and results of that test for a given implementation, and assess if the test suite is showing the correct information. They should be accountable for what is tested.
    * MJ: They can't be responsible for the software.
    * SC: The authors are not responsible for the software, but should be in the loop for what the requirement is.
    * MJ: If we detect differences in the 6 implementations, we mark the test as disputed. If an implementer decides not to implement part of the spec.
    * SC: The community needs the authors to look at the tests and confirm that the test is checking the requirement.
    * MJ: When we find differences in servers, we should be able to publish about that. Then we can write down what the process
    * SC: test suite panel should not be creating issues about implementation problems.
    * PE: What does point 3 practically mean?
    * SC: Anyone can write tests. They write. If the requirement is part of spec A, then the writers of that spec need to look at the test and validate that the test is giving the requested output.
    * PE: The focus is to acknowledge that the spec writers should be in the loop for validating that the test is doing the right thing for the requirement.
    * SC: The proposal is to create an issue in bullet form that the author reviews the test. Need to have agreement on this point to have a charter.
    * MJ: If we always need to include the authors for any reporting, and they don't, the test suite panel would not be allowed to publish anything.
    * MJ: if our requirements require us to collaborate, but they don't, our charter prevents us from doing our work.
    * MJ: Suggest: we continue to publish what we publish. cannot do that on solidproject.org because the website maintainer do not approve at this moment. Publish the information on another website, good resource for developers and maintainers. We ask solidproject.org if they want to merge our reports, but as long as they say no we have to publish it elsewhere until that time.
    * SC: <span id="note-2022-05-09T14:55:00Z">Number of issues on the reports.</span>
    * SC: <strong id="note-2022-05-10T10:55:00Z">CHAIR NOTE (2022-05-10)</strong>: The remainder of the minutes was done after the allocated timeslot of the meeting. The lastest snapshot dated <a href="#note-2022-05-09T14:55:00Z">2022-05-09T14:55:00Z</a> (the message above) provided by the HackMD. The remainder of the minutes are retained for informative purpose only and do not imply group consensus.
    * MJ: number of issues opened, but back-and-forth
    * SC: This is the problem, because the tests are not authoritative. What kind of assurance can we give that the tests are reliable that they can look at. It currently is not reliable because there are disputes between different parties.
    * MJ: This leads to spec discussion, which improves the
    * SC: did the spec authors review all the tests?
    * MJ: No, just the disputes.
    * SC: We need the authors to validate the tests.
    * MJ: Whenever we find a discrepancy between servers - if it is a problem on the server side, we let the server developer know. If the spec is unclear, we let the spec writers know.
    * PE: N3 tests are not correct yet. But the numbers are already counted. It is known that the tests are not representative yet.
    * MJ: there is a clear consensus that solid requires WAC. So at that point, we test for WAC.
    * SC: unless the authors sign off on the tests, the point of the proposal is what the authors need.
    * MJ: The test suite already has shown issues in the spec which have been resolved.
    * SC: changes to solidproject.org go through a PR so that changes are documented.
    * MJ: will report on solidservers.org for now, and hope that it can be merged into solidproject.org.
    * SC: Running out of time.
    * AB: if the position is we have to wait until everything it perfect until things are published.
    * SC: authors need to validate the test reports to have the proper weight.
    * AB: sometimes an issue with the specification was raised.
    * SC: None of that rules this out.
    * YB: how do we get authors to approve a test?
    * SC: Open a PR?
    * YB: ... how to get approval? can we do things without approval? Maybe publish parts of the report with a marker that 'this has not been validated by the author?'
    * SC: The focus lies in what is authoritative and approved. If we have a way where we can keep the tests and the reports under review, separately. At least we are clear about what the authors have reviewed. Most of the specs are not final, authors don't always have time to dip into the tests.
    * SC: Take test solid-oidc, has it's own test suite. The author of the spec and whoever is writing the tests, should agree that the tests are valid, if they are to be published on solidproject.org.
    * SC: We need to agree on what the charter aims on. Summaries and reports may need to have specific machine readable information, things like that.
    * MJ: So the tests in the specification tests are all approved by the authors? Are there sets of approved tests? Together, they cover all the tests that we know of. We hope that in time, the number of approved tests should grow. Will publish elsewhere for now.
    * SC: would like issues on what the requirement are and put those into the charter.
    * MJ: Not interested in a charter with the current 3rd and 4th point. Interested in a charter with how we operate.
    * MJ: We hope that the authors will approve the tests over time, until then?
    * AB: We need a way to collaborate with the spec authors to have validation.
    * SC: Need some common agreement on how this will work.
    * MJ: Want to run all the tests, approved or not.
    * SC: The group will not publish without checks, will not publish random things.
    * MJ: Question is, what will we do while we wait until the authors have approved the tests?
    * SC: If we can capture how the process looks like for an author to approve a test, that should help us forward.
    * MJ: Wasn't that the aim for the harness, so that the tests are easier to review? Having more tests creates a more level playing field for new contenders.
    * SC: The report should not be coupled to the tooling. doesn't matter what tool or test generated it. Should only care about the data at that point, but that data should have gone through checkpoints to make sure that it is valid.
    * MJ: Jest based tests and RDF based tests that Pete started work on should be in scope for the test-suite-panel.
    * SC: what is the common data format for the reports, machine / human readable. Should have the name of the project, lists all the tests and outcomes.

<strike>ACTION SC: Make issues for the charter proposals. Needs to leave room for unapproved reports / tests.</strike>

  * Software maintainers give consent for reports to be published.
  * Charter may be updated based on the needs of the CG.

<strike>ACTION: SC to create issues for PROPOSALs 1-3 so they can be discussed in a broader audience.</strike>

#### PROPOSAL-1: Specify criteria for publishing test summaries and reports. ACTION for Solid Editors Team by 2022-05-23.

#### PROPOSAL-2: Specify criteria for test suite and test metadata. ACTION for test software maintainers by 2022-05-23.

#### PROPOSAL-3: Specify criteria for assessing tests and reports. ACTION for spec contributors by 2022-05-23.

#### PROPOSAL-4: Review results of PROPOSALS-1 to PROPOSALS-3. ACTION for Test Suite Panel by 2022-05-23.

#### PROPOSAL-5: Propose Test Suite Panel Charter. ACTION for SC by 2022-05-30.

#### PROPOSAL-6: Review Test Suite Panel Charter. ACTION for TBL by 2022-06-06.

#### Deliverables
* SC: Charter will indicate "Test Suites" (or "Conformance Tooling" or whatever) under Deliverables in the Charter, but will not name specific tooling.
* SC: The panel to continue with the work under Work Items listed under https://solidproject.org/TR/#work-item-test-suites as part of the Deliverable. New Work Items can be added provided need/agreement from the Panel and the Chair.
