# W3C Solid Community Group: Test Suite Panel

* Date: 2022-12-15T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-test-suite
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/test-suite
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Pete Edwards](https://id.inrupt.com/edwardsph)
* [Michiel de Jong](https://michielbdejong.com)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Pete Edwards


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

* SC: The Test Suite Panel is a horizontal team where test software developers, spec contributors, implementers, and any other group can join to discuss/collaborate.
* SC: This meeting is intended to focus on processing current open issues.


### Previous Meeting
URL: https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-06-01.md

* SC: Following that meeting the Test Suite Panel Charter was proposed, reviewed, and accepted: https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/test-suite-panel-charter.md


### Next Meeting Plan
* SC: Some of us tentatively agreed for a monthly meeting. Any preferences? We should at least schedule the next meeting and stick to it - we can change the frequency if need to.

PROPOSAL: Regular meetings on 3rd Tues of the month at 13:00 UTC, starting 2023-01-17.

* MJ: If attendees from other regions find this a problem we can review it.


### Spec Terms
URL: http://www.w3.org/ns/spec

* SC: Relevant towards the charter's deliverables / issues 5-7 (below).
* SC: The vocabulary is currently maintained at https://github.com/solid/vocab .
* SC: Some details about the work in https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/84 .
* PE: I've been working happily with this and find it very useful.
* SC: Noting that changes have been made to the ED requirement levels and subjects so the coverage report may need an update
* PE: I have a task to review these changes
* SC: Found some other work at W3C (QA group) around things expressed in specs: http://www.w3.org/2002/05/matrix/vocab . May have some vocabulary such as has test suite, has interoperability report, etc. Hasn't seen any spec using these terms. Our terms are under ns/spec so hopefully we can push them forwards. ns/spec is also generally more comprehensive for expressing significant things in specs.


### Process
* https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/issues/5
* https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/issues/6
* https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/issues/7

* MJ: We have 2 processes: one for solidservers.org and more rigorous for solidproject.org
* SC: Goal is for an authoritative publication
* MJ: We have partial tests available at present. We are moving towards a better standard, perhaps over the next 2-3 years depending on how the specs change
* SC: We are trying to establish the process for the authoritative location but there is not really a process at present (from the panel). We are trying to have one process
* MJ: Now or in the future
* SC: Within the context the charter over the next few years
* MJ: We have 2 processes, one deprecated but ongoing for now
* SC: Is solidservers.org an approved process
* MJ: We created the issues around a need for a process
* PE: Is this a defactor process while we work on new one
* MJ: No, we agreed panel covers 2 processes but didn't describe them in detail in the charter
* SC: 
* MJ: Feels like the process is about describing CTH work not test-suite. We agreed not to publish output from CTH but will use to test and if necessary, add tests to show the same thing in test-suite and publish from there.
* SC: Irrespective of where published we are aiming for a common understanding of the requirements. We are trying to unite everyone's work. Everything from determining how tests are written/reviewed/approved to publishing.
* MJ: Goal was to get buy-in from community by writing charter but MJ feels it has got worse. 
* SC: These issues are about having a common view on what we need.
* MJ: I said 2 sets of requirements
* SC: No, not 2 sets of requirements
* MJ: We are working in 2 ways so it charter doesn't describe that then it does not work
* SC: We are struggling to do 1 set of requirements not 2. People were arguing about which were valid but this was about describing the process. We can have multiple test suites, but not multiple requirements. There may be specialisms in the test suites but requirements should come from the same foundations. We need to approach authoring and reviewing the same way
* MJ: If we were to go this route - 2 choices. Write strict requirements (e.g. RDF, refer to spec, reviewed by editors). What if some test suites don't meet strict requirements - what would the next steps be?
* SC: They would need to be updated
* MJ: Who would find time for that? Concerned that strict requirements would need other suite to be updated while waiting for the complete migration to newer test suites.
* SC: No strong opinion about whether jest tests are updated.
* MJ: Wouldn't it be weird if we kept tests alive which didn't meet the requirements
* SC: If specs moved ahead...
* MJ: Not about the test but about requirements. 
* PE: If we look back at some of the changes that happened. In the requirements it is important to identify the relationship between tests and spec. The test suite begun to do that. Maybe when we defined the requirements - requiring RDF for that particular test suite may be difficult. Absolute requirements and goals..
* MJ: Appreciate the thought and it would help but need to write down the goals to not give incorrect expectations e.g., someone making the changes that they may not have time for.
* MJ: Will not agree to a charter that does not reference and accommodate existing work. 
* SC: Imagine charter didn't exist. Different people had difference views about writing/publishing test. Charter is to form a common view. It was not meant to "leave things behind" but to be "working towards a common approach". Don't have an answer to what we do in the mean time. A valid question but hard to answer until we establish the common ground. Then we can decide what software is worth updating and who will do it. We have difference stakeholders.
